{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red92\green38\blue153;\red46\green13\blue110;\red63\green110\blue116;
\red28\green0\blue207;\red170\green13\blue145;\red0\green116\blue0;\red100\green56\blue32;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\

\b \ul Using AutoLayout
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 UIEdgeInsets contentInsets = UIEdgeInsetsMake(0.0, 0.0, keyboardRect.size.height, 0.0);\
baseScrollView.contentInset = contentInsets;\
baseScrollView.scrollIndicatorInsets = contentInsets;
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf0 UIEdgeInsets contentInsets = UIEdgeInsetsZero;\
baseScrollView.contentInset = contentInsets;\
baseScrollView.scrollIndicatorInsets = contentInsets;
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\

\b \ul Ordinary
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx529\pardeftab529\pardirnatural

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 	CGPoint\cf0  pt;\
	\cf2 CGRect\cf0  rc = [sender \cf3 bounds\cf0 ];\
	rc = [sender \cf3 convertRect\cf0 :rc \cf3 toView\cf0 :\cf4 scrollView\cf0 ];\
	pt = rc.\cf2 origin\cf0 ;\
	pt.\cf2 x\cf0  = \cf5 0\cf0 ;\
	pt.\cf2 y\cf0  -= \cf5 150\cf0 ;\
	[\cf4 scrollView\cf0  \cf3 setContentOffset\cf0 :pt \cf3 animated\cf0 :\cf6 YES\cf0 ];\
\
\
\
\cf7 \
\cf0     [[\cf2 NSNotificationCenter\cf0  \cf3 defaultCenter\cf0 ] \cf3 addObserverForName\cf0 :\cf2 UIKeyboardWillShowNotification\cf0  \cf3 object\cf0 :\cf6 nil\cf0  \cf3 queue\cf0 :[\cf2 NSOperationQueue\cf0  \cf3 mainQueue\cf0 ] \cf3 usingBlock\cf0 :^(\cf2 NSNotification\cf0  *note) \{\
        [\cf6 self\cf0 .\cf2 navigationItem\cf0  \cf3 setHidesBackButton\cf0 :\cf6 YES\cf0  \cf3 animated\cf0 :\cf6 YES\cf0 ];\
    \}];\
    [[\cf2 NSNotificationCenter\cf0  \cf3 defaultCenter\cf0 ] \cf3 addObserverForName\cf0 :\cf2 UIKeyboardWillHideNotification\cf0  \cf3 object\cf0 :\cf6 nil\cf0  \cf3 queue\cf0 :[\cf2 NSOperationQueue\cf0  \cf3 mainQueue\cf0 ] \cf3 usingBlock\cf0 :^(\cf2 NSNotification\cf0  *note) \{\
        [\cf6 self\cf0 .\cf2 navigationItem\cf0  \cf3 setHidesBackButton\cf0 :\cf6 NO\cf0  \cf3 animated\cf0 :\cf6 YES\cf0 ];\
    \}];\
\
\
\
\
\
- (\cf6 IBAction\cf0 )previous:(\cf6 id\cf0 )sender \{\
    \
    \cf6 for\cf0 (\cf2 UITextField\cf0  *textField \cf6 in\cf0  \cf4 scrollView\cf0 .\cf2 subviews\cf0 )\
    \{\
        \cf6 if\cf0 (textField.\cf2 tag\cf0  == \cf4 currentTextField\cf0 .\cf2 tag\cf0 -\cf5 1\cf0  && textField.\cf2 tag\cf0  != \cf5 0\cf0 )\
        \{\
            [textField \cf3 becomeFirstResponder\cf0 ];\
            \cf6 break\cf0 ;\
        \}\
    \}\
\}\
\
- (\cf6 IBAction\cf0 )next:(\cf6 id\cf0 )sender \{\
    \
    \cf6 for\cf0 (\cf2 UITextField\cf0  *textField \cf6 in\cf0  \cf4 scrollView\cf0 .\cf2 subviews\cf0 )\
    \{\
        \cf6 if\cf0 (textField.\cf2 tag\cf0  > \cf4 currentTextField\cf0 .\cf2 tag\cf0 )\
        \{\
            [textField \cf3 becomeFirstResponder\cf0 ];\
            \cf6 break\cf0 ;\
        \}\
    \}\
\}\
\
\
\
\
\

\f2\b \ul // For table view cell containing text fields.
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
- (\cf6 void\cf0 ) textFieldDidBeginEditing:(\cf2 UITextField\cf0  *)textField \{\
    \cf2 UITableViewCell\cf0  *cell;\
    \
    \cf6 if\cf0  (\cf3 floor\cf0 (\cf2 NSFoundationVersionNumber\cf0 ) <= \cf8 NSFoundationVersionNumber_iOS_6_1\cf0 ) \{\
        \cf7 // Load resources for iOS 6.1 or earlier\cf0 \
        cell = (\cf2 UITableViewCell\cf0  *) textField.\cf2 superview\cf0 .\cf2 superview\cf0 ;\
        \
    \} \cf6 else\cf0  \{\
        \cf7 // Load resources for iOS 7 or later\cf0 \
        cell = (\cf2 UITableViewCell\cf0  *) textField.\cf2 superview\cf0 .\cf2 superview\cf0 .\cf2 superview\cf0 ;\
        \cf7 // TextField -> UITableVieCellContentView -> (in iOS 7!)ScrollView -> Cell!\cf0 \
    \}\
    [tblView scrollToRowAtIndexPath:[tView indexPathForCell:cell] atScrollPosition:UITableViewScrollPositionTop animated:\cf6 YES\cf0 ];\
\}\
\
\
\
\
}